- There's something strange happening
with me and Rose.
Remember!
- Don't freak out.
- Okay.
That's, um, new.
I'm actually a Spirit User
just like St. Vladimir.
When I become queen,
we'll know if someone is an
incompetent fighter.
That's a lie.
He was one of the best.
Mikhail Tanner betrayed us
by allowing himself
to be turned Strigoi.
Guardians follow orders, Rose,
or the system crumbles.
The system is broken.
I have to follow orders.
I don't.
Lady Vasilissa,
the last Dragomir.
I'm Adrian, by the way.
So what do you know
about Saint Vladimir?
I can help you,
but only if you come back.
Wake up.
You Dream Walked.
You're a Spirit User.
You up for an adventure?
Get some of those answers
that you want.
I know you're hurting.
And I'd do anything
to make it stop.
Once there were 13 saints.
Today, their children's
children's children
are called Royals.
But they were saints
back then,
the best of the Moroi.
And the best of the saints
was Vladimir,
the Messenger, the Founder.
It was Vladimir
who had the vision:
a world for the Moroi,
secret and isolated
from the barbarous humans
with their wars of religion,
wars of conquest,
wars of intolerance.
And that vision was embodied
in the human treaty,
which gave all Moroi a home
and gave all Dhampirs
a purpose in the great,
holy Elemental Order.
You know this story.
It's the one they tell
children in the academies
and in Feast Day homilies.
It's the first great lie.
The happy lie of St. Vladimir.
- But the truth will come out
because the truth always does.
Shh.
And woe unto us if we
let the lies make us forget
the real dangers out there
because they are out there,
and they are very, very real.
It is time, Your Majesty.
The hope we had for unanimity
from the Council
has gone by the wayside.
Yes, because of my
daughter's outburst.
But we need to act.
The only way we'll get
a clear and decisive mandate
is if you lead us there.
You need to declare for me.
They are so beautiful
after a feed.
I know they say it is
the outrush of chemicals
in their brain that
our bite releases,
but there is a part of me
that always believed
we take their cares
along with their blood.
I hate the idea of an
Elementalist on the throne,
especially Tatiana Vogel.
Happily, by my count,
even after last night's fiasco,
if you bring the three
more persuadable
heads of family home--
Abby Batista, Peter Tarus,
and Evette Ozera,
you should have a majority.
Six to five--
that is enough for a win.
- Yes, but--
- No, Victor.
I cannot mandate this.
There was a moment in the wake
of Andre's death, yes,
but now, all our hatreds and
troubles are out in the open.
The only way to hold the throne
is to win the crown,
legitimately
and without my help.
You have until
tonight's closing caucus
to get your votes.
♪ No escape ♪
♪ Get away ♪
♪ My game to play ♪
♪ I got you where I want you ♪
♪ No escape ♪
♪ I got you
where I want you ♪
Gotcha.
Cheater.
There's no way
that you beat me here
and set up an ambush unless
you scouted ahead of time.
Recon is just basic
perimeter control.
You said we were going blind.
Suddenly, Rose Hathaway
is a believer in rules.
Or maybe
you've been scouting out
secret places to get me into.
Rose?
Uh-huh.
I need a favor.
The risk of even
one more person knowing, Lissa.
Yeah, after he just
walks into my dream
and makes himself at home?
Rose, Adrian Ivashkov
and I are in the same boat.
I know of three
confirmed Spirit Users.
Vlad went Dark.
I might be losing my mind,
and the last one--
Is a stone drunk,
from what I hear.
A self-medicating drunk
who drinks to keep
the Darkness at bay.
But he might have answers,
and right now,
I need answers
more than I need lectures
about how scary it is.
Because I might end up
the same as Adrian
if I don't find another way of
keeping the Darkness in check.
And this might be our only shot
to figure out this link
you and I have.
You're going to need
Dimitri as well, you know.
And what am I
signing up for here?
That's the part
that doesn't suck.
A trip into the human world.
Do you realize
the kind of pre-planning
that normally takes?
It's a playground
for Strigoi out there.
Route planning, recon,
coordination of guards.
We don't have
the necessary clearances.
They won't so much as open
the provincial gates for us.
They will for me.
This is foolhardy.
Go another day, when I know
I can keep you safe.
Wow, you got a real
earnest one here.
Are you sure he's cool
for what we got to do?
I trust him implicitly.
This is what I'm doing.
And your job is to make sure
I don't die doing it,
so are you in,
or are you leaving me
to the human world with only
Adrian to protect me?
I am useless in a fight.
Speaking of which, listen.
You told me that I would
have my own Guardian.
I know, I'm late.
Well, hello, little Dhampir.
This is the guy?
I'm driving.
I am in your hands.
Have you ever even
driven a car before?
Guess I'm in your hands.
♪ Make a night to regret ♪
♪ Makes 'em go and sweat
to the moon, yeah ♪
♪ Come alive for the sunset ♪
♪ Hearts racing
in the darkness ♪
♪ We go, we go ♪
And they just comply?
Whatever you tell them?
Most of the time.
When you tried that with me,
I could feel you
knocking at the door
of my consciousness.
I'm envious.
Says the man who can
just stroll into my dreams.
About that.
Now, Rose, just so you know,
when I start making
inappropriate cameos
in your dreams,
just know that's not
Spirit Magic, all right?
That's just your
intense attraction to me.
Are you a whiskey kind of lady?
Where did you find this guy?
So have you ever
healed anyone?
He--heal? You can heal?
How?
Well, it's just
like the other power.
It's like this part of me
drops inward and pools,
and I get this warm rush,
and I can do stuff.
So maybe I should explain.
Have you seen the auras yet?
- Auras? No. Not yet.
- What the hell is all this?
And where are we going?
Time to clue us in.
There is a scholar
that we think
has some answers that
Lissa and I very much need.
A Moroi scholar
in the human world?
She's written some things
about St. Vladimir
that haven't made her
very popular with the church.
Or the Queen.
Or anyone, really.
A heretic?
An iconoclast
who's been accused of heresy.
Lissa.
♪ Let's make a night
to regret ♪
We need different clothes.
I understand the fear
that St. Jude touched off,
I feel it, but how much
of our souls are we willing
to trade away just to feel
a little less afraid?
Lady Ozera, these Dhampirs
that the others
are talking about elevating
aren't just bodies.
They're children,
just like your nephew Christian.
Abby, it's down to you.
Your family has the honor
of hosting the Royal Caucus tonight.
Do me the honor
of giving me your vote.
Victor, spare me the pitch.
I'll do anything to stop that
xenophobic monster Tatiana
from taking the throne.
Sir, are you all right?
This scholar of yours,
she lives around here?
Approximately.
You do know
where we're going?
I know where
we're going next.
What?
I don't know where she lives,
but I know someone who might.
- Might?
She's not exactly living
out here on an official permit.
You know, a heretic and all.
She keeps a low profile.
For fuck's sake.
Do we look human now?
Okay.
All right.
So where's this friend
we're meeting?
Who wants to go clubbing?
♪ Everywhere we go ♪
♪ People wanna know ♪
♪ Who you are ♪
♪ Everywhere we go ♪
♪ People wanna know ♪
♪ Who you are ♪
What is this music?
It's fucking perfect.
And all these people.
I mean, have you ever seen
this many anybody?
I've never been in a room
where I literally know no one.
I don't think anybody
knows anybody here.
No?
♪ So we tell them ♪
♪ Your ill will,
your sad song, your haircut ♪
♪ Keeping you up all night ♪
♪ Your ego, your crashing,
your greed ♪
♪ Keeping you up all night ♪
Focus, Rose.
This is a protective nightmare.
I got it,
Mr. Perimeter Control.
Really?
How many entry and exit points?
Yeah, I don't know either.
You've got 360 degree exposure
on our two charges
with only two of us to cover.
I'm aware, but we're good.
We could be walking through
a Strigoi buffet line.
I'll know
if there are Strigoi.
Hi.
Muscle stays out here, Ivashkov.
You know that.
Go. Be quick.
Got it. One drink.
Maybe two.
No uncovered entry points.
They'd better be quick.
We're only here
for information.
And maybe one drink.
Hey, uh, Rose,
try not to get too bored
without me, all right?
Want to do a shot?
Joking.
Ish.
Is it okay with you
if I let them in?
Let me--let me just
get this straight.
You'd marry Jesse Zeklos?
Listen, that guy
makes me look eligible.
Look, it's Jesse
or Ralf Dawoud,
Anthony Carter,
or Wade Vogel, okay?
And...
it's not that
I would marry him.
But they say you have to.
If I want to get
my quorum back, yeah.
Hoo.
You know, back home,
they'd look at a room
full of humans like this
and see only a feedlot.
You know, like cattle.
But you spend some time
out here,
among the humans with all
their mess and chaos and fun...
Suddenly, when you turn around
and look back
into our little world
with all its--
all its pious rules
and sacred bloodlines--
it's those Zekloses
and those Dawouds
and those Carters who start
to look pretty fucking bovine.
But Lissa, seriously,
you got to know.
When a wise old Moroi
gives you a list like that,
it's just a fact.
The names they left off
are sure to be a lot more fun.
Time to play.
This isn't our world.
No.
This is fun.
You're so awkward.
I'm doing my job.
Or maybe you don't know
what to do with yourself
when you're actually
kind of free.
No Moroi.
No Dhampirs.
None of your rules.
Just the music
and us.
Come on.
Just dance with me.
Fuck.
Which is it?
Is it Strigoi or Lissa?
I've seen this enough times,
Rose, at home, in Caroni.
You feel things coming.
Which is it?
Strigoi.
We have to get out of here.
Lissa. Go.
Go, go, go!
- Go!
♪ If you let go ♪
♪ If you're down for more ♪
♪ Till we six feet below ♪
♪ If you gotta know ♪
I don't see anyone following.
What the hell was that
back there?
- There were Strigoi.
- I didn't see any Strigoi.
They were there, trust me.
What the hell
was that back there?
Not the Strigoi.
Took you long enough.
I like it.
Just tell us
where we're going.
A little moonlight
boat ride, anyone?
They're down there,
brainstorming questions
for their heretic.
It's the nerdiest
I've ever seen her.
Keep warm.
Do you ever think
about another life?
Being more than just a pawn
they can rip from your home
or throw Strigoi at for fun?
A life outside the Dominion.
While we were dancing,
you wanted that freedom too.
When I was 13, two years
into my academy training,
they gave us
a Feast Day furlough.
I went to see my mother,
my little sisters
back on the Commune.
This time, my father--
or the Royal who fathered me--
was visiting too.
I'd met him a few times,
heard him a few times
on the far side of the wall,
taking it out on her.
Whatever a posh Moroi fucker
has to take out on anybody.
I had no idea how angry I was
till I found myself on him.
Years of anger just...
poured out of me.
And when it was done,
I remember the fear,
not just his.
But also the fear in the eyes
of my mother,
my sisters.
And the fear I felt
of that thing in me.
It's why I need the code
of the Guardian life,
to keep that thing in check.
Freedom.
Freedom scares me
to death, Rose.
Or it did until--
Until now?
Where the hell are we?
You've had a line
on this woman for a while now.
How have you never come to
ask these questions before?
Sometimes you need
the right answers to be able
to ask the right questions.
Clarice Sewani.
I'm Adrian--
I know who you are,
and the answer
is the same as it's been
for everyone
you've sent to hassle me:
fuck off.
Adrian, what are you doing?
What do you think,
Lord Ivashkov?
Just gonna force your way in?
Adrian...
Gonna set your Guardians
on me?
You think you can make me talk?
No.
She can.
She's not gonna give us
what we need if you don't.
I will.
You have Compulsion.
You're a Messenger.
Which means
I can make you talk,
if I choose to.
Are you okay?
I should be asking you.
I'm fine.
Here.
You're pushing yourself.
I'm just--I'm just tired.
But I did it.
I will be king.
I--
I just--I just need to make it
through this last night.
The Queen will
submit me to caucus,
the votes will formalize it,
and then you and I
can both rest.
But you have to make it
through tonight
looking like a king,
and you can barely stand.
Do you really think they'll
allow it if they see this?
Dad, would the Unionists
even support you?
I believe in you.
And I'm better. Look at me.
I slept. I had a feed.
I'm gonna heal you again.
I am. I can handle it.
And after last night,
there isn't much in my life
that's come to anything.
But this, I can do.
I can make you king.
Ready?
A man who raises
such daughters
seeks to be the father
to our people.
It cannot be.
Your Holiness,
it's time you stopped Victor
once and for all.
Me?
I represent
the Elemental Way, my dear.
Not the mortal one.
That distinction
is exactly the problem.
The Strigoi are at the gates.
Our numbers are dwindling,
and we are dithering.
We need to think bigger.
You, my dear aunt,
need to think bigger.
You will speak for the Church
and end this humiliation.
Okay.
I think I need to know
what's happening here.
What do you want to know?
All of it.
And then this corner
looked like
it was Vladimir
healing someone,
which is also something
I can do.
That leaves the center,
where Vladimir's eyes are.
Where he's consumed
by Darkness.
His eyes are black in a way
I think I've seen in myself.
He was a Spirit User,
and it did something to him.
And a long time ago,
someone decided
that no one should ever know.
And they gave us some bullshit
story about happy Vladimir.
We want the truth about Vlad.
All of it.
We want to know
how he fought it off,
the Darkness.
He must have, somehow.
Compulsion,.
Dream Walking. Healing.
That's Anna there.
Faithful Anna,
the model Dhampir Guardian.
Shadow-Kissed Anna.
But what about
the fourth corner?
It's been worn away.
I've never been able
to find that out.
If early accounts of this
altarpiece are to be believed,
the image here originally
looked something like this.
It's called a Spirit Bond.
Anna knew his heart
like it was her own.
Sometimes his thoughts.
Maybe even saw
through his eyes.
This is your answer.
Vladimir's solution to the
Darkness, as you call it.
He passed it to her.
They actually
believe all of this.
A Fifth Element?
Secret Magic that Vladimir had
and the entire Dominion
has kept a secret
for centuries?
Or they just edited it out
of the whole story
after they burned
a bunch of people alive.
That's what they do--
lie and kill.
So why not?
Because... it goes against
the whole holy Elemental Order.
The four-part harmony
of the world.
I shouldn't have
let this happen.
Fuck.
They're coming.
Go.
Vladimir didn't
beat the Darkness.
He just gave it
to someone else.
Have I been doing this to Rose?
She does sort of walk
on the Dark side of things.
No, no.
He was supposed to show me
I could be someone good.
When everything's telling me
that what I have in me is bad,
he was supposed to be good.
But he's just another parasitic
Moroi like all of us,
just using his
Guardian like that.
Strigoi coming.
We're going now.
What?
You children.
You led them right to me.
Yeah, lady, we did,
but we've got the jump on them,
and we're going
with or without you.
- Rose, no, she has--
- Lissa, we've got to go.
They're here.
Inside.
You'll be safe in here.
You knew they were coming.
You can sense them in your gut.
Hey.
Hey, listen,
you're assuming that Vladimir
forced his Darkness onto Anna,
but what if she took it?
Isn't that what we learned
in Sunday school,
the holy devotion
of Shadow-Kissed Anna?
What is Shadow-Kissed?
I mean, how does any of this
even makes sense?
This is one of the parts
of Vladimir's story
the authorities
wanted to expunge
because the Spirit Bond
was the fruit of Vladimir's
ultimate sin.
Rose! Rose!
Rose!
Lissa!
She's just a kid.
What the actual fuck?
Never hesitate.
* ♪
May the succession bring
prosperity to the Dominion.
Very good.
Thank you all.
Is there something else, Irene?
There is.
Your Majesty...
For decades now, you and I
have maintained a balance
between the vagaries
of the political realm and the
durable interest of the faith.
As have all eight
of my High Priests
and Priestesses before you.
Yours? Hmm.
That, Marina,
is precisely the problem.
The balance has collapsed.
This ugly chapter
with Victor is only
the latest indignity
to be forced on the faith
by political interests.
The time has come for the
faith to assert itself.
To muck about where
it doesn't belong, you mean?
To call in
the many chits we have
piled up against the crown.
Do not mistake
forbearance for weakness.
I am telling you that
nominating Victor
would be a very grave error.
Better your niece.
How much balance would there be
if one family controlled
both Church and state?
Unless you're retiring.
Tatiana is the only candidate
for the throne
that the Church will tolerate.
And without the support
of the Church,
the new monarch will fail.
The Elementalists
will make sure of it.
I will make sure of it.
Victor will not rule.
I saw him.
They followed us here
from the club.
They had a human
smorgasbord there.
What would we matter to them?
My life here is dead.
No, the Strigoi are dead.
You could clean up, and--
You're so far out
of your depth.
You have no idea
how this world works.
It's not the Strigoi
I'm worried about.
It's the ones
who come after them.
You've burned my world down.
But to make us even,
I'm going to give you
what you came here for.
What the hell is going on?
How can you have possibly
lost the Queen?
What are you
talking about, Abby?
The Queen has assured me--
I have it
from Tatiana's own lips.
The Queen won't submit
your name to the Council.
Word's already getting out.
You've lost her confidence.
Tarus, the Ozeras,
they're all wavering.
You may not have your votes
much longer.
No.
Not now.
Your father sent me.
Are you all right?
I just need to feed.
Of course.
Sonya.
Hey, easy.
Slow down, please!
Please! No!
This is the moment.
I have the votes.
You only need to name me,
and it's done.
They will do your will.
Marina, please,
after all we've given,
I have to have this.
I'm sorry, Victor.
The Church has forced my hand.
But I have
one final card to play.
I want to thank
my dear friend Abby Batista
for hosting us
on this weighty day.
As we choose our next leader,
I remind you that a good
monarch must know when to rule
and when not to.
As there is no clear majority
for either the Elementalist
or Unionist candidate tonight,
I am suspending this caucus...
And invoking the ancient rite
of Royal Trial,
a ritual steeped in
and sanctified
by our religious forebears.
The candidates must face
a series of sacred tests.
Whoever wins will rule.
Thus, the Elements
will decide our fate,
not your aging Queen.
As of now,
the future of our Dominion
is in the hands
of the Elements.
It was just a moment.
We hesitated
for one tiny moment.
There's no room for divided
loyalties in this world, Rose.
There can never be a question
of you or them,
me or your charge.
There can be no hesitation.
Of course not.
It's a fucking dream.
But you felt it.
Right?
What we could be?
Every second of it.
But never again.
For 500 years, we've
burrowed down in our provinces
and let ourselves forget
that the Strigoi
aren't the only ones
with the power to do us harm.
Beyond the wards,
they watch and wait,
ready to come down on us
with all their fury if we err.
But if history is our guide,
the first wound we suffer
will be self-inflicted.
We turn on our own first.
Thank God you're here.
I needed to see you.
I don't want you
to be my Guardian.
Not now, not ever.
It's just--it's too wrong,
all of it.
The way we exploit you.
I just can't do it anymore,
not to you.
They'll give me someone,
and I can't avoid that.
But I just can't
have it be you.
You deserve better.
I deserve?
I'm trying to do what's best.
You have no idea
what it's like to be us.
None.
And now you're gonna tell me
what I deserve?
You're going to make
that choice for me,
but I don't get a say?
I have no option
but to be a Guardian,
and the only thing that makes
all that shit worthwhile
is you.
And now you're gonna
take that away
as some kind of a favor to me?
You have no idea
what I would give up for you.
I would die for you.
Yeah, I know you would,
because you did.
The ultimate sin
Vladimir committed
was resurrection.
In a faith built
on the cycling of Elements,
there is no
greater violation...
Than bringing life
back to the dead.
That was the source
of the bond to Anna,
the Shadow Kiss.
Death left its mark on her...
Just as it has
on your friend.
You died
saving me in the accident.
I brought you back.
You're Shadow-Kissed.
That's why we have this bond
between our spirits.
But now--
now I know how toxic
that's been for you.
I've been passing
my Darkness off to you.
I'm not gonna do it anymore,
not if I can help it.
So firing me
is going to solve that?
It's a start.
- Lissa--
- I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry.
Lissa.
Lissa!
Sonya?
Sonya.